====================================
Internationalization and Translation
====================================

The OpenStack I18n team is responsible to make OpenStack
ubiquitously accessible to people of all language backgrounds,
by providing high quality translations. It is composed of
a core team which manages the translation platform and process,
and various translation teams who translate OpenStack
documents, OpenStack Dashboard and messages into different
languages.

Translation Platform
=====================

We use an Open Source development approach to translate OpenStack.
There is a `translation server`_ built on top of OpenStack
infrastructure supporting OpenStack translation.
People who are interested in translation can log on the
`translation server`_ and find English strings in small pieces
that need to be translated.

Those English strings are extracted from OpenStack projects and
documents, and organised by projects and versions. Translated strings
in various of languages will finally be merged as a whole and saved in
OpenStack repositories. A number of automatic jobs support the
extraction of English strings, upload to the translation server, and
download the translated strings. More details can be found here:
`Translation infrastructure`_.

Note that the OpenStack source language, the language used inside
OpenStack projects, is always US English.

Translation of Documents
========================

Translation of OpenStack documents are treated the same
as translation of Python projects. The whole English documents
are sliced into small pieces for translation and stored
in PO templates and send to the translation server. When
translation is done, HTML documents are built. More details can be
found here: `Documentation I18n tools`_.

All the document projects in `translation server`_ can be found here:
`Documentation translation projects`_.

Translation of Repositories
===========================

To enable translation of repositories, the translation infrastructure
needs to be setup as documented in `translation server setup`_.

The process for translation is basically the following:

1. After each merge of a repository, all strings that should be
   translated, will be sent to the translation server.

2. Translators translate strings using the `translation server`_.

3. Every morning after 6:00 UTC, the CI infrastructure checks for
   files that are translated and creates a change and submits it to
   review for the repository. Files are considered translated if at
   least 75 per cent of the messages are translated.

4. The change gets reviewed and merges into the repository.

Here is a list of all open `proposed translations`_.

Translation start by default on the master branch. The i18n team
creates stable branches for certain projects once a stable branch is
created in git, and then translations are done on the stable branch on
the translation server as well and synced with the stable git branch.

Translation priorities
======================

Generally, translation plans will be published in the homepage of
`translation server`_, where you can get the current translation
priorities.

Since there are many server projects, client projects, and manuals to
translate, the OpenStack I18n team will discuss which files to focus
on. Any project team can enable translations for their project but
this will not result automatically in translators working on the
files. Project teams can discuss with the OpenStack I18n team how
their project fits into the overall focus.



.. seealso::

   * `i18n Team page in the OpenStack wiki`_
   * `Translation infrastructure`_
   * `Translation server`_
   * List of open `proposed translations`_
   * `Translation server setup`_

.. _translation server: https://translate.openstack.org
.. _i18n Team page in the OpenStack wiki: https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/I18nTeam
.. _Translation infrastructure: https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Translations/Infrastructure
.. _proposed translations: https://review.openstack.org/#/q/status:open+topic:zanata/translations,n,z
.. _Translation server setup: http://docs.openstack.org/infra/system-config/translate.html
.. _Documentation translation projects: https://translate.openstack.org/version-group/view/doc-resources
.. _Documentation I18n tools: https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/I18n/Tools
